Added editorial for magazine ad cf 803 d (#3914)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/cf-803D.mdx

---
id: cf-803D
source: CF
title: Magazine Ad
author: Alex Du
---

<Spoiler title="Hint 1">

> Can we check if there is a way to format an ad of a given width using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Is there a way to format an ad of a given width using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines?
```

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Solution">

## Explanation

[Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/51768)

> If we can find whether formatting an ad with a given width within the line constraints is possible, we can binary search on the width, printing the minimum width that works.
> 
> Since spaces function identically to hyphens, we can treat them similarly. We can break the ad into blocks of word lengths, with each word length including the word plus a space or hyphen. The only exception is the last word, which will have neither.
> 
> Given a width, we will add as many words as possible to each line, creating a new line when we run out of room. If the number of lines we use is less than or equal to the maximum number of lines, then our width is fine. Note that if any word is wider than our given width, we must use a greater width.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Is there a way to format an ad of a given width using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines?

If we can format an ad using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines, we can binary search for the minimum width that works.
 
We can break the ad into blocks of word lengths, with each word length including the word (except for the last word) plus a space or a hyphen since spaces and hyphens function similarly.
  
We will add as many words as possible to each line for each width, creating a new line when we run out of room. If the number of lines we use is less than or equal to the maximum number of lines, then our width works. If any word is longer than our given width, then our width doesn't work.
```

What does "blocks of word lengths mean"? You should clarify this in the explanation.

> If we can find whether formatting an ad with a given width within the line constraints is possible, then we can binary search on the width, printing the minimum width that works.
> 
> Note that spaces function identically to hyphens, so we can treat them the same way. We can break the ad into blocks of word lengths, with each word length including the word plus a space or hyphen. The only exception is the last word, which will not have either.
> 
> Given a width, we will add as many words as possible to each line, creating a new line when we run out of room. If the number of lines we use is less than or equal to the maximum number of lines, then our width is fine. Note that if any individual word is wider than our given width, we must use a greater width.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we can find whether formatting an ad with a given width within the line constraints is possible, we can binary search on the width, printing the minimum width that works.	 
  
Since spaces function identically to hyphens, we can treat them similarly. We can break the ad into blocks of word lengths, with each word length including the word plus a space or hyphen. The only exception is the last word, which will have neither. 

Given a width, we will add as many words as possible to each line, creating a new line when we run out of room. If the number of lines we use is less than or equal to the maximum number of lines, then our width is fine. Note that if any word is wider than our given width, we must use a greater width.
```

---
id: cf-803D
source: CF
title: Magazine Ad
author: Alex Du
---

<Spoiler title="Hint 1">

> Is there a way to format an ad of a given width using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines?

Reviewer 2: hm given that this problem is bsearch
maybe you should point them towards that
"say you know that [this value] is/isn't possible. what can you deduce from this?"

Author: added hint 2

Reviewer 2: i feel like that one should come before or replace this one tbh

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int max_lines;
vector<int> word_lengths;
string ad;

/** @return if most optimized ad of given width satisfies constraints */
bool width_valid(int width) {
	int lines = 0;
	int cur_width = 0;

	for (int word_length : word_lengths) {
		// if individual word is wider than ad width, we need a greater width
		if (word_length > width) { return false; }

		// if we overflow, we need a new line
		if (cur_width + word_length > width) {
			lines++;
			cur_width = word_length;
		} else {
			cur_width += word_length;  // add word to current line
		}
	}

	if (cur_width > 0) { lines++; }
	return lines <= max_lines;
}

int main() {
	cin >> max_lines;
	// ignore '\n' character before getline
	cin.ignore();
	getline(cin, ad);

	// get sizes of each word, including trailing spaces and trailing hyphens
	word_lengths.push_back(0);
	for (char i : ad) {
		word_lengths.back()++;
		// spaces and hyphens work the same, start new word after adding char
		if (i == ' ' || i == '-') { word_lengths.push_back(0); }
	}

	/*
	 * find the lowest width that doesn't use greater than max_lines

> 	 * binary search: https://usaco.guide/silver/binary-search

Reviewer 3: this line is not necessary.

```suggestion
```

Author: i copied the code from there, so i put it to give credit

	 */
	int lo = 0;
	int hi = (int)ad.size();
	hi++;
	while (lo < hi) {

> 		int mid = lo + (hi - lo) / 2;

Reviewer 3: this is computationally equivalent and shorter to type
```suggestion
		int mid = (lo + hi) / 2;
```

Reviewer 2: no i think it’s like off by 1 in some scenarios

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Solution">

[Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/51768)

If we can find whether formatting an ad with a given width within the line constraints is possible, then we can binary search on the width, printing the minimum width that works.

Note that spaces function identically to hyphens, so we can treat them the same way. We can break the ad into blocks of word lengths, with each word length including the word plus a space or hyphen. The only exception is the last word, which will not have either.

Given a width, we will add as many words as possible to each line, creating a new line when we run out of room. If the number of lines we use is less than or equal to the maximum number of lines, then our width is fine. Note that if any individual word is wider than our given width, we must use a greater width.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N \log N)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

int max_lines;
vector<int> word_lengths;
string ad;

// returns true if most optimized ad of given width doesn't use greater than
// max_lines

> bool f(int width) {

Reviewer 2: rename to smth more informative + doc comments

---
id: cf-803D
source: CF
title: Magazine Ad
author: Alex Du
---

<Spoiler title="Hint 1">

Is there a way to format an ad of a given width using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines?

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Hint 2">

If you know that some width is/isn't possible to format an ad with, what can you deduce from this?

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title="Solution">

## Explanation

[Official Analysis](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/51768)

Is there a way to format an ad of a given width using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines?

> If we can format an ad using less than or equal to the maximum number of lines, we can binary search for the minimum width that works.

Reviewer 4: would be awesome if u could say something like

note that if $x$ width works, then all $i < x$ also works, **so** we can binary search
